---
layout: post
title:  "Jungsik, Seoul"
date:   2016-06-27
categories: seoul korea
---
### Amuse bouche // Banchan

Foie cream, apple jelly
: 3mm cubes of apple and croutons set into jelly for texture. Topped with micro coriander. Savoury cream with sweet jelly is a good idea. Could try this with pancetta/black pudding flavoured cream.

Bulgogi croquette, gochojang mayo
: 2x1cm, served on an edible breadstick handle. A lot of this meal used Spanish techniques.

Smoked salmon cone
: Brittle cone contained smoked salmon slices, topped with a salmon cream and a single salmon roe.

Rice and barley grains
: mixed with doenjang, served on a circular piece of perilla.

Caramelised potato
: Some sort of cream or mayo. First thing I ate, not very memorable.

Berry shot

### First

Octopus, gochugaru aioli
: Octopus was braised then deep fried. Aioli relatively loose. Best octopus texture I've had, would be fun to sous vide then deep fry octo tentacle.

### Second

Kimbap
: Thick, crisp seaweed cigars, filled with rice, grilled tuna, mayo, slice of pickled cucumber. Served with tartare. Tuna smoky from grill. Good texture.

### Third

Lobster, gochugaru beurre blanc
: Lobster smoky from grill. Asparagus naturally cooked. Steamed (?). Gochugaru beurre blanc tastes gently acidic, less full on than the mayo.

### Palate cleanser

Ginger creme caramel, ginger syrup, pear sorbet
: Ginger syrup spiced with cinnamon.

### Desert

Cheongdam Pie
: Two disks of pastry (I think puff blind baked between to baking sheets) sandwiching cream, topped with jasmine cream, jasmine (?) sorbet, beautiful spheres of Korean apple flesh, crisp texture, intense, pear like flavour.
