---
layout: post
title: "December 2016"
---

## 3rd: Chicken breast, mushrooms

- 2 chicken breast, skin and bone on
- 1 clove garlic, smashed
- 2 thyme sprigs
- 300g mixed mushrooms
- 3 cloves garlic, sliced
- 4 sprigs thyme
- 300g double cream


Generously season chicken breasts with salt. Optionally set aside to dry brine for 45 mins.

Fry mushrooms with thyme and garlic in olive oil. Salt mushroom to encourage them to give off water. Add cream, reduce. Season. Can be made in advance and reheated.

Fry chicken breast, skin side down over medium heat for 6-8 mins until the skin has crisped. Turn heat to low, flip chicken breasts, add a knob of butter and the thyme sprig, cook for a further 6-8 mins. Rest for 5 mins. Slice at an angle and serve.


## 4th: Courgette and feta muffins

Adapted from [Honey & Co: The Baking Book](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=0QqNBwAAQBAJ&pg=PT232&lpg=PT232&dq=feta+courgette+muffin+honey+and+co&source=bl&ots=3_M_lYPcO7&sig=MGv0KNO2DbdZj7AcBZJ8GLgidzk&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwibi7ittdrQAhWoJ5oKHZX_A90Q6AEIPDAD#v=onepage&q=feta%20courgette%20muffin%20honey%20and%20co&f=false).

- 300g courgette
- 1 tsp salt
- 200g self-raising flour
- 4 tsp zatar (I used a mix of dried thyme, dried oregano, sumac, toasted sesame)
- 1 tsp baking powder
- 1/2 tsp black pepper
- 50g olives, chopped
- 100g feta, crumbled
- 20g kashkaval or pecorino
- 1 tbsp picked thyme leaves
- 3 eggs
- 50g sunflower oil + 30g olive oil

Preheat oven to 170C fan.

Grate courgette, sprinkle 1/2 tsp salt over, let drain in colander for 20 mins. Squeeze as much water out as possible.

Add all dry ingredients, cheese and olives to a bowl and mix.

Roughly mix eggs and oil.

Fold eggs and oil into dry ingredients. Spoon into 6 muffin tins.

Bake for 15 mins, turn muffin tin, bake for another 15 mins. When ready, muffins should feel spongy.


## 4th: Peanut butter

- 500g raw, unsalted shelled peanuts with skins on
- 5g salt (1% - salt amount can be adjusted to taste)
- 1 tbsp sunflower oil

Heat oven to 180C fan.

Roast peanuts for 20 mins. Allow to cool. Blend to desired consistency with the other ingredients.


## 4th: Carrot and courgette soup with cumin and lemon

- 2 carrots, 1cm dice
- 1 onion, sliced
- 2 courgettes, 2cm dice
- 2 garlic cloves, sliced
- 1 tbsp tomato paste
- 1 tsp ground cumin
- 1 tsp turmeric
- 1 tsp cayenne
- 1 tsp salt
- 500ml chicken/vegetable stock
- lemon juice

Soften carrots and onion in olive oil for 7 mins. Add garlic and courgette, cook for 3 mins. Add tomato paste and spices. Stir for 1 min. Add chicken stock. Bring to boil and simmer for 15 mins. Roughly blend with a stick blender. Add lemon juice before serving.


## 10th: Pressure cooked Pho Ga

Adapted from Kenji's [recipe](http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/01/30-minute-pressure-cooker-pho-ga-recipe.html).

- 2 onions, peeled, halved
- 10 cm ginger, unpeeled, sliced
- stems from small bunch coriander
- 3 star anise
- 1 cinnamon stick
- 4 cloves
- 1 tsp fennel seeds
- 1 tsp coriander seeds
- 4 chicken drumsticks
- 2l water
- 60ml fish sauce
- 2 tbsp rock sugar

To serve:

- pho noodles
- coriander, basil, mint
- sliced chillies
- lime
- bean sprouts
- spring onions
- hoisin + sriracha

Heat oil to smoking point in a pressure cooker. Blacken onions and ginger for 5 mins. Add coriander stems, spices, chicken. Add water, fish sauce, rock sugar. Cook on high pressure for 20 mins. De-pressurise, remove chicken and strain broth.


## 17th: Roast Cote de boeuf, rosemary and thyme crust

Adapted from [ChefSteps](https://www.chefsteps.com/activities/win-the-holidays-with-herb-crusted-sous-vide-prime-rib-rib-roast)

- 3kg Cote de boeuf,
- rosemary
- thyme
- garlic
- salt
- pepper
- 500ml beef stock
- 200ml red wine
- 1 egg

Season the beef, and pre-sear over a high heat. Remove from heat, fry rosemary and garlic in the oil. Add beef, rosemary and garlic to a vacuum bag, cook in a waterbath at 56C for 4-6 hours.

Remove from waterbath, make gravy by pouring bag juices into a pan, fully reduce. Add red wine and reduce. Add beef stock. Strain and season.

Whip the egg white, paint it onto the beef, crust the beef with finely chopped rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper. Roast in an oven at 250C for 5-15 mins.


## 17th Roast potatoes

- 1.5kg potatoes
- Beef dripping

Peel potatoes, cut into golf-ball sized pieces. Parboil for ~20-30 mins until potatoes are almost falling apart. Gently drain, allow to steam dry. Add dripping to a large baking tray, large enough to fit all the potatoes in a single layer. Add potatoes, flip each one so it's covered with oil. Season. Cook at 220C for 1h30 or 250C for 45 mins. Half way through, take potatoes out, flip each one again.

## 17th Green beans

Adapted from The Complete Nose to Tail

- 500g green beans
- 12 anchovy fillets
- 1 tbsp capers
- 1 head garlic
- 8 shallots
- parsley
- olive oil
- 1 tbsp red wine vinegar

Roast garlic and shallots in a 180C oven until caramelised ~30 mins for garlic ~45 for shallots. Finely chop the anchovies, capers, roasted garlic, parsley. Add to bowl with olive oil and vinegar. Blanch beans for 4 mins. Add beans and roasted shallots to bowl, mix.


## 17th Roasted carrots

- Large carrots, 2 per person, topped and tailed, unpeeled, split lengthways

Toss carrots in olive/sunflower oil to coat them. Add, cut side down to a large baking tin in a single layer. Roast for 40 mins at 220C, flipping each carrot after 20 mins.


## 19th Focaccia

Adapted from Kenji's [recipe](http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/02/easy-no-knead-olive-rosemary-pistachio-focaccia-kenji-recipe.html)

- 500g strong white bread flour
- 325g water
- 10g salt
- 1/2 tsp yeast
- 4 tbsp olive oil
- herbs (rosemary, thyme, oregano etc)

Bring all ingredients in bowl so there's no dry flour. Let rise for 8-24 hours at room temp. Put 2 tbsp oil in a baking tray, add dough, spread dough out to fit tray. Cover with cling film, rise for 2h at room temp.

Pre-heat oven to 250C fan. After dough has risen, top with 2 tbsp oil, herbs. Push divots into the dough. Bake for 16-24 mins.


## 20th Bottarga

- Whole fish roe sacks (choose a fish with small roe)
- 1% cold brine (e.g. 10g salt dissolved in 1l water)
- salt
- olive oil

Brine roes overnight. Remove from solution, pat dry. Cover a large plate with kitchen roll. Add a layer of salt, the roes, another layer of salt. Cure for 3-4 days. Replace the kitchen roll and salt daily. Once cured, roe should be firm. Rinse off salt and dry. Suspend roes in the fridge for 10-14 days to air dry. Serve grated onto pasta.
