---
layout: post
title: "November 2016"
---

## 27: Pork and game pie

Recipe inspired by Nigel Slater for the [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2016/nov/21/nigel-slater-five-christmas-recipes-partridge-pie-fig-ice-cream-terrine).

- 2 partridge, without skin
- 1 pheasant, without skin
- 1 onion
- 1 red onion
- 2 carrots
- 2 sticks celery
- 8 rashers bacon
- 3 sprigs thyme
- 3 sprigs rosemary
- 2 cloves garlic, sliced
- 400g ground pork
- 1/2 tsp ground allspice
- 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
- 4g salt (1% the weight of the pork)
- 500g puff pastry
- 1 egg

Gently poach game birds with the onion for 30 mins, until the breast meat is cooked. Remove breasts and let cool.

Finely dice red onions, carrots, celery and cook over low heat until softened, about 10 mins. Add bacon, thyme, rosemary, garlic and cook for further 5 mins. The mix should be relatively dry. Let cool.

Combine ground pork, allspice, cinnamon and salt.

Once the cooked vegetables have cooled, mix them into the ground pork.

Roll out 1/3 of the puff pastry, and use it to line a buttered 24cm tart tin (I used a cast iron skillet). Top with half the pork and vegetable mixture. Lay the game bird breasts on top. Cover with the rest of the pork vegetable mix, forming a slight dome. Roll out the rest of the puff pastry, and cover the pie with it. Cut a central hole to allow steam to escape. Brush with the beaten egg.

Heat oven to 200C/180C fan, chill pie in fridge for 20 mins. Cook pie for 50 mins, rest for 10 mins before serving.


## 29: Roast chicken, anchovy spring greens

- 1 chicken
- 1 head spring greens
- 2 garlic cloves
- 5 anchovy filets
- 3 tbsp olive oil
- 1 tbsp white wine vinegar
- 1 tbsp mustard

Heat an oven to 220C fan.

Truss the chicken according to the [Chef Steps method](https://www.chefsteps.com/activities/tips-tricks-best-way-to-truss-a-chicken). Season generously with salt and pepper and roast for ~45 mins.

Remove stem from spring green leaves, slice leaves 2cm thick and wash. Heat olive oil in pan, add garlic and anchovies. Cook for 2 mins, until anchovies melt. Add spring greens, cook for 3 mins, add mustard and vinegar and stir to emulsify.


## 30: Crab and nduja linguine

Serves 2-4 ppl.

- 1kg crab
- 1/2 tbsp ndjua per person
- 100g linguine per person
- 2 cloves garlic, sliced
- parsley
- zest and juice of 1 lemon

Freeze a ~1 kilo crab for 1hr to slow nervous system. Bring 4l of water salted with 4 tbsp table salt to the boil. Put crab in and boil for 12 mins/kg. Let cool, pick brown and white meat, keeping them separate.

Bring a new pan of water to the boil, cook pasta according to packet instructions.

Fry garlic for 1 min in olive oil. Add brown crab meat, gently reduce. Add ndjua. Add cooked pasta, and loosen with pasta water if needed. Take off heat, add white crab meat. Season with salt and pepper. Top with parsley, lemon zest and juice, to taste.
